So now with the definition of angular and the different word is out of the way let's simply dive into
it and let's build our first angular app for that.
We'll use the official angle or a command line interface Seelye and dad ISDE recommended and best way
of creating angular projects because Angua projects are actually a bit more elaborate regarding their
build workflow.
There are a couple of files that need to be worked out before they can run in the browser and to Seelye
does all of that and also heavily optimized our code so that we ship a highly optimized code word in
to the browser.
Once we finally deploy our app which will all go into this course and the end of course.
So the angler's Seelye and you can see all the steps you need to run on the left here.
And these steps are the same for Windows and Mac.
Now for them to work you need one additional tool and that's note J.S. note.
J.S. is a server side language and you might be wondering what are we doing with it in this course.
It's saying a workhorse not a node course and you'd be right we won't write any note as code here but
note JS will be used behind the scenes by the Seelye to bundle and optimize our project and we'll use
NPM the node package manager to manage two different dependencies and angle or project has dependencies
are things like the angular framework itself but also some of our libraries that FREYBERG uses.
So you can simply download the latest word here by clicking on that button.
In my case it's 10.0 but that might differ for you and you will get an installer for which you can walk
which will conveniently install notes.
Yes.
And does NPM tool on your machine once you you've finished installation we can run these commands and
we run them in our terminal or command prompt.
Now here I'm on a Mac Therefore I used an old terminal.
If you were on windows you would open a normal command prompt possibly open that as an administrator
by right clicking on the executable and clicking run as administrator to rule out some potential issues.
But in the end you should be able to simply run NPM using that note package aventure install dash g
to install it globally on your machine at angular slash Seelye at latest at latest.
It's optional at angular slash Selye is not.
So you absolutely need to run this now on Windows.
This should just work on Mac or Linux you probably need to add a pseudo in front of this to give yourself
the right permissions.
Hit enter and now I'm prompted to enter my password.
You may or may not be.
And once you confirm everything this should now download the angular Selye from this node package manager
repository and install it on your machine.
Now as you can see you might get some errors in-between like I'm getting here.
You may ignore them as long as it's successfully installed TC lie as you can tell by the output here
at the bottom.
So it added to or it updated two packages or added them if you installed it the first time and you CDC
and the Word installed.
Now the word can differ depending on the time when you install it as by the way the general functionality
will not differ.
Now the wording can differ depending on the time when you installed it by way the general functionality
So this did work though with that we can create our first project and we do this with this engine you
command here which is now available since we installed DCL I forget.
Navigate into a folder where you want to create that project and once you navigated there with the cd
command you can simply run Engy new and then maybe my dash for a stash app.
This name is totally up to you.
So N-G new is a set command to create a new project.
The name is up to you.
It must not be test or something like that though because that actually is a researched word which will
work.
Now depending on the word you're using you might be asked two questions here a couple of questions.
The first one is would you like to add angular routing.
Now you can just type N here or hit enter to use the default which is also no.
And then here which Stahl's You'd for me you want to use and there you also want to go with the default
for discours which is already selected so you can hit enter here too.
So essentially the result of this hit Enter two times and now will create a new project.
And now this will create a new folder with a couple of files and dependencies and the entire build workflow
setup in there.
And as I said we need as more complex set up because for example angular uses typescript a superset
of Javascript.
So basically a language that looks a bit like javascript and is compiled down to Javascript in the end.
Bited workflow but which also offer some extra features and to do that compilation as well as a couple
of other optimization steps.
We need this more complex set up with all these dependencies.
Now once it is finished successfully and if it didn't check out the lecture prior to this video here
I do share some common gotchas and fixes there.
So once it is finished successfully we can navigate into that with the cd command and then the name
of the project in my case it's my dash for a stash app.
And once you're in there you can run Engy serve to basically bring up a development server that will
run you are built and for development optimized app so that you can see it in the browser.
The server runs on localhost hundred.
By default you'll see the output here.
So you can simply go to the browser enter localhost four thousand two hundred.
And you should see something like this.
Is this just a simple starting screen provided by the Hasil AI project.
Welcome to app.
And then some useful links to the official docs and so on.
Awesome.
Now this is our first application.
Now we set this up.
Of course not too much is happening here so let's edit this first step and do something more fancy with
it.
And.